# Rengine

This is a 2D Rendering Engine based on TheCherno's Hazel Game Engine Series

I made this project with the goal of learning more about how computer graphics work and specifically how a Rendering Engine works, so everything was done from scratch.

# Features

This engine is in a very early state, but it has the following features:
- Custom UI, thanks to ImGui.
- Layer-based architecture. The user can create layers and push/pop them from/to a stack. All events are propagated through these layers so that they can be handled accordingly.
- Keyboard & Mouse input handling.
- Basic 2D rendering: Colored Quads with support for textures.
- Orthographic cammera, with a controller to handle zoom, translation and rotation.

Currently, the engine only supports OpenGL as the graphics APi, but the design is API-Agnostic, so in the future new rendering APIs can be easily integrated.

The build system that I used was Premake, and the solution for Visual Studio 2022 can be generated by running the file inside the scripts folder.

# Using Rengine to make an application

The "Sandbox2D" project is and example of an application that uses Rengine.

### 1. Create a class that extends from Rengine::Layer, and override the virtual methods.

```C++
class Sandbox2D : public Rengine::Layer
{
public:
	Sandbox2D();
	virtual ~Sandbox2D() = default;

	virtual void OnAttach() override;
	virtual void OnDetach() override;
	virtual void OnUpdate(Rengine::Timestep ts) override;
	virtual void OnImGuiRender() override;
	virtual void OnEvent(Rengine::Event& e) override;
}
```

### 2. Create a class that extends from Rengine::Application, and push the previously created layer onto the stack.

```C++
class Sandbox : public Rengine::Application
{
public:
	Sandbox()
	{
		PushLayer(new Sandbox2D());
	}

	~Sandbox()
	{

	}
};
```


### 3. Implement Rengine::CreateApplication, which returns a new heap-allocated instance of the previously defined application.
```C++
Rengine::Application* Rengine::CreateApplication()
{
	return new Sandbox();
}
```
